# enhancing-dietary-monitoring-using-deep-learning
<p>
  <b>ABSTRACT :</b>The project "Enhancing Dietary Monitoring Using Deep Learning :Food Recognition And Calorie Estimation" introduces an innovative method aimed at improving dietary tracking and fostering healthier eating habits. By employing cutting-edge deep learning techniques, its core objective is to precisely identify various food items and rapidly estimate their caloric content, offering users advanced and personalized monitoring capabilities. Utilizing the Python programming language alongside the MobileNet architecture model, the project underwent rigorous training and evaluation using the expansive Food 101 dataset, comprising 37,046 food images distributed across 101 distinct classes. Notably, the model demonstrated exceptional performance, achieving a training accuracy of 97.02% and a validation accuracy of 98.17%, highlighting the efficacy of this approach in accurately categorizing a wide array of food items. This system provides users with several crucial functionalities. Furthermore, it furnishes users with essential insights by estimating the caloric content of recognized foods, facilitating effective monitoring of dietary intake. The intelligent diet monitoring capabilities enabled by Food Recognition and Calorie Estimation empower users to make informed choices regarding their dietary preferences. Through the continuous tracking and analysis of their daily food consumption, users can glean valuable insights into their nutritional habits, set personalized goals, and make necessary adjustments to achieve a well-balanced and healthy diet. Enhancing Dietary Monitoring Using Deep Learning :Food Recognition And Calorie Estimation stands as a prominent illustration of successful implementation of deep learning techniques, particularly with the utilization of the MobileNet architecture, for food recognition and calorie estimation. With its remarkable accuracy, real-time processing capabilities, and intelligent monitoring features, this project has the potential to revolutionize how individuals track and manage their dietary habits, thereby promoting healthier lifestyles and overall well-being.
<br><b></BR>Keywords:</b> MobileNet architecture, Convolutional Neural Network (CNN) algorithm, Web application, Datasets.
</p>
<p>
  In this project, at first food is recognised which has been uploaded and estimated the calories of the which helps the user to maintain a healthy dietary plan.
It have been provided a calorie chart which contains the carbohydrates,fats, vitamins,minerals& protiens percentage in that food. 
</p>
